# 1.11 Understand and apply threat modeling concepts and methodologies

**Threat Modeling**: security process where potential threats are identified, categorized, and analyzed. It can be performed as a proactive measure during design and development or as a reactive measure once a product has been deployed. Threat modeling identifies the potential harm, the probability of occurrence, the priority of concern, and the means to eradicate or reduce the threat.

* Microsoft uses the **Security Development Lifecycle** (SDL) with the motto: "Secure by design, secure by default, secure in deployment and communication." It has two objectives:
  * Reduce the number of security-related design and coding defects
  * Reduce the severity of any remaining defects
* A defensive approach to threat modeling takes place during the early stages of development; the method is based on predicting threats and designing specific defenses during the coding and crafting process. Security solutions are more cost-effective in this phase than later. This concept should be considered a proactive approach to threat management

## DREAD

**DREAD** was previously used at Microsoft and OpenStack to assess threats against the organization. The mnemonic is to remember the risk rating for security threats using five categories. A score of 0 to 10 is given to each category, then the scores are added and divided by 5 to calculate the final risk score. The categories are:

* **D**amage – how bad would an attack be?
  * **0** = no damage
  * **10** = complete destruction
* **R**eproducibility – how easy is it to reproduce the attack?
  * **0** = impossible
  * **10** = easy and without authentication
* **E**xploitability – how much work is it to launch the attack?
  * **0** = advanced knowledge and tools
  * **10** = little knowledge, a web browser
* **A**ffected users – how many people will be affected?
  * **0** = none
  * **10** = all
* **D**iscoverability – how easy is it to discover the threat?
  * **0** = nearly impossible, source code or administrator access required
  * **10** = visible easily, from a web browser

## STRIDE

Microsoft developed the STRIDE threat model:

* Spoofing: an attack with the goal of gaining access to a target system through the use of falsified identity
* Tampering: any action resulting in unauthorized changes or manipulation of data, whether in transit or in storage
* Repudiation: the ability of a user or attacker to deny having performed an action or activity by maintaining plausible deniability
* Information Disclosure: the revelation or distribution of private, confidential, or controlled information to external or unauthorized entities
* Denial of Service (DoS): an attack that attempts to prevent authorized use of a resource. This can be done through flaw exploitation, connection overloading, or traffic flooding
* Elevation of privilege: an attack where a limited user account is transformed into an account with greater privileges, powers, and access

## PASTA

Process for Attack Simulation and Threat Analysis (PASTA) is a seven-stage threat modeling methodology it is a risk-centric threat-modeling framework developed in 2012. It contains seven stages, each with multiple activities:

The seven steps of PASTA:

* Stage I: Definition of the Objectives (DO) for the Analysis of Risk.
* Stage II: Definition of the Technical Scope (DTS)
* Stage III: Application Decomposition and Analysis (ADA)
* Stage IV: Threat Analysis (TA)
* Stage V: Weakness and Vulnerability Analysis (WVA)
* Stage VI: Attack Modeling and Simulation (AMS)
* Stage VII: Risk Analysis and Management (RAM)

Each stage of PASTA has a specific list of objectives to achieve and deliverables to produce in order to complete the stage.

## VAST

Vast is a threat modeling concept based on Agile project management and programming principles.

Visual, Agile, and Simple Threat (VAST) is a threat modeling concept that integrates threat and risk management into an Agile programming environment on a scalable basisPart of the job of the security team is to identify threats, using different methods:

* Focus on attackers: this is a useful method in specific situations. For example, suppose that a developer’s employment is terminated. After extracting data from the developer’s computer, a determination is made that the person was disgruntled and angry. Understanding this situation as a possible threat, allows mitigation steps to be taken
* Focus on assets: an organization’s most valuable assets are likely to be targeted by attackers
* Focus on software: organizations that develop applications in house, and can be viewed as part of the threat landscape. The goal isn’t to identify every possible attack, but instead to focus on the big picture, identifying risks and attack vectors

## TRIKE

Trike is using threat models as a risk-management tool. Used to satisfy the security auditing process. Threat models are based on a “requirements model.” The requirements model establishes the stakeholder-defined “acceptable” level of risk assigned to each asset class. Analysis of the requirements model yields a threat model from which threats are enumerated and assigned risk values.&#x20;

The completed threat model is used to construct a risk model based on assets, roles, actions, and calculated risk exposure.

Understanding threats to the organization allow the documentation of potential attack vectors. Diagramming can be used to list various technologies under threat
