# 1.12 Apply Supply Chain Risk Management (SCRM) concepts



* Risks associated with hardware, software, and services
  * **Supply Chain Risk Management** (SCRM) is the means to ensure that all of the vendors or links in the supply chain are reliable, trustworthy, reputable organizations that disclose their practices and security requirements to their business partners (not necessarily to the public)
  * Each link in the chain should be responsible and accountable to the next link in the chain. Each handoff is properly organized, documented, managed, and audited. The goal of a secure supply chain is to ensure that the finished product is of sufficient quality, meets performance and operational goals, and provides stated security mechanisms, and that at no point in the process was any element counterfeited or subject to unauthorized or malicious manipulation or sabotage.
* The supply chain can be a threat vector, where materials, software, hardware, or data is being obtained from a supposedly trusted source but the supply chain behind the source could have been compromised and asset poisoned or modified
* Third-party assessment and monitoring
  * Before doing business with another company, an organization needs to perform due-dilligence, and third-party assessments can help gather information and perform the assessment.
  * An on-site assessment is useful to gain information about physical security and operations. During the document review, your goal is to thoroughly review all the architecture, designs, implementations, policies, procedures, etc. A good understanding of the current state of the environment, especially to understand any shortcomings or compliance issues prior to integrating the IT infrastructures. The level of access and depth of information obtained is usually proportional to how closely the companies will work together.
* Minimum security requirements
  * As part of assessment, the minimum security requirements must be established. In some cases, the minimum security requirements are your company’s security requirements. In other cases, new minimum security requirements need to be established. In such scenarios, the minimum security requirements should have a defined period
* Service-level requirements
  * A final area to review involves service level agreements (SLAs). Companies have SLAs for internal operations (such as how long it takes for the helpdesk to respond to a new ticket), for customers (such as the availability of a public-facing service) and for partner organizations (such as how much support a vendor provides a partner). All the SLAs should be reviewed. A company sometimes has an SLA standard that should be applied, when possible, to the service level agreements as part of working with another company. This can sometimes take time, as the acquiring company might have to support established SLAs until they expire or are up for renewal

