# 1.13 Establish and maintain a security awareness, education & training program

A security professional should assist with formal security awareness training as a method to inform employees about their roles, and expectations surrounding their roles, with regards to information security. This helps to inform about a particular security or risk management function while achieving regulatory and legislative compliance.

Further there should be training lessons based on the different business functions and the risks. For example, lesson related to the finance department from monetary fraud attempts, the Human Resources department regarding personal information and phishing attempts and higher management regarding spear phishing attacks.

Awareness aims at bringing security to the forefront by raising its importance to all staff members not just the IT security team. Security awareness training can be achieved through screen savers, posters, announcements, as well as courses.

Training helps employees understand how to comply with security while performing their job role.

Methods and techniques to present awareness and training

* Before actual training can take place, awareness of security as a recognized entity must be created for users. Once this is accomplished, training, or teaching employees to perform their work tasks and to comply with the security policy can begin. All new employees require some level of training so that they will be able to comply with all standards, guidelines, and procedures mandated by the security policy. Education is a more detailed endeavor in which students/users learn much more than they actually need to know to perform their work tasks. Education is most often associated with users pursuing certification or seeking job promotion.
* Employees need to understand what to be aware of (types of threats, such as phishing and free USB sticks), how to perform their jobs securely (encrypt sensitive data, physically protect valuable assets) and how security plays a role in the big picture (company reputation, profits,and losses). Training should be mandatory and provided both to new employees and yearly (at a minimum) for ongoing training. Routine tests of operational security should be performed (such as phishing test campaigns,tailgating at company doors and social engineering tests).
  * Social engineering. While many organizations don’t perform social engineering campaigns (testing employees using benign social engineering attempts) as part of security awareness, it is likely to gain traction. Outside of campaigns, presenting social engineering scenarios and information is a common way to educate
  * Phishing. Phishing campaigns are very popular. Many organizations use third-party services to routinely test their employees with fake phishing emails. Such campaigns produce valuable data, such as the percentage of employees who open the phishing email, the percentage who open attachments or clicklinks, and the percentage who report the fake phishing email as malicious
  * Security champions. The term “champion” has been gaining ground. Organizations often use it to designate a person on a team who is a subject matter expert in a particular area or responsible for a specific area. For example, somebody on your team could be a monitoring champion — they have deep knowledge around monitoring and evangelize the benefits of monitoring to the team or other teams. A security champion is a person responsible for evangelizing security, helping bring security to areas that require attention, and helping the team enhance their skills
  * Gamification. Legacy training and education are typically based on reading and then answering multiple-choice questions to prove one’s knowledge. Gamification aims to make training and education more fun and engaging by packing educational material into a game. That might mean playing an actual game, but it might also mean keeping track of scores, having leader boards, and enabling people to earn somethingbased on their scores or progress (kudos, special avatars or similar). Gamification has enabled organizations to get more out of the typical employee training

Periodic content reviews

* Threats are complex, so training needs to be relevant and interesting to be effective. This means updating training materials and changing out the ways which security is tested and measured. If you always use the same phishing test campaign or send it from the same account on the same day, it isn’t effective. The same applies to other materials. Instead of relying on long and detailed security documentation for training and awareness, consider using internal social media tools, videos and interactive campaigns

Program effectiveness evaluation

* Time and money must be allocated for evaluating the company’s security awareness and training. The company should track key metrics, such as the percentage of employees who click on a fake phishing campaign email link. Is the awareness and training bringing that number clicks down over time? If not, re-evaluation may be needed
