---
description: >-
  Understand requirements for investigation types (i.e., administrative,
  criminal, civil, regulatory, industry standards)
---

# 1.6 Understand requirements for investigation types

An investigation will vary based on the type of incident being investigated. As an example, for a financial services company, a financial system compromise might cause a regulatory investigation. A system breach or website compromise might cause a criminal investigation. Each type of investigation has special considerations:

**Administrative**: An administrative investigation has the primary purpose of providing the appropriate authorities with incident information. Thereafter, the authorities will determine the proper action, if any. Administrative investigations are often tied to HR scenarios, such as when a manager has been accused of improprieties

* for (ISC)2 purposes, the term administrative will refer to actions constrained to those conducted within a single organization — that is, the organization performs an administrative investigation of itself.&#x20;
* Internal investigations are typically performed when the matter involves some violation of organizational policy and does not involve any external entities such as law enforcement, investors, third-party suppliers, or attackers.\


**Criminal**: A criminal investigation occurs when a crime has been committed and you are working with a law enforcement agency to convict the alleged perpetrator. In such a case, it is common to gather evidence for a court of law and to share the evidence with the defense. Therefore, you need to gather and handle the information using methods that ensure the evidence can be used in court. Remember that in a criminal case, a suspect must be proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. This is more difficult than showing a preponderance of the evidence, which is often the standard in a civil case.

* Criminal investigations involve prosecution under criminal laws. The government, at the federal, state, or local level, prosecutes violations of its laws by imposing fines, imprisonment, or, in some extreme cases, even death for offenders

****

**Civil**: In a civil case, one person or entity sues another. For example, one company might sue another for a trademark violation. A civil case is typically about monetary damages and doesn't involve criminality. In a civil case, a preponderance of the evidence is required to secure a victory. This differs from criminal cases, where a suspect is innocent until proven guilty beyond a reasonable doubt&#x20;

* Civil law governs relations and interactions between private entities. The plaintiff in a civil case sues for compensation for a loss or relief from some type of dispute. As information security practitioners, we may be called on to support our clients when they are either plaintiffs or defendants in civil suits

**Industry Standards**: An industry standards investigation is intended to determine whether an organization is adhering to a specific industry standard or set of standards, such as logging and auditing failed login attempts. Because industry standards represent well-understood and widely implemented best practices, many organizations try to adhere to them even when they are not required to do so in order to improve security and reduce operational and other risks

* Investigation is a broad term. There are currently many standards and guidelines offered in this realm, some of which are dependent on the jurisdiction or industry in which the organization operates.

**Regulatory**: A regulatory investigation is conducted by a regulatory body, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA), against an organization suspected of an infraction. In such cases, the organization is required to comply with the investigation, for example, by not hiding or destroying evidence.

* Regulatory investigations involve determining whether an organization is compliant with a given regulation or legal requirement. Regulations have the force of law; consequently, regulatory investigations are similar to criminal investigations.
