# Data Remanence

Once the data is safely backed up or past its useful life, it needs to be deleted or purged from the digital media. However, such erasure actions may not completely wipe the data from the digital media. The possibility of residual data remains. Besides, in some systems, only the table entries for the data are removed and not the data itself until it is overwritten. Corporations regularly dispose of systems with digital media containing such residual data.&#x20;

{% hint style="info" %}
Data that remains even after erasing or formatting digital media is called residual data and the property to retain such data is called data remanence. Data remanence is the residual data that remains when the data is not completely erased or destroyed. When the media is reused, this may result in the unauthorized disclosure of sensitive information. It is a good practice to **prevent media reuse** by physically destroying the media completely. In case of reuse, policies and procedures should be established to ensure that the data is destroyed completely.
{% endhint %}

* Data Remanence: Data left over after normal removal and deletion of data.&#x20;
* Memory: Is just 0s (off) and 1s (on); switches representing bits.&#x20;
  * ROM:&#x20;
  * &#x20;ROM (Read Only Memory) is nonvolatile (retains memory after power loss); most common use is the BIOS.  PROM (Programmable read only memory)  EPROM (Erasable programmable read only memory)  EEPROM (Electrically erasable programmable read only memory)  PLD (Programmable logic devices) are programmable after they leave the factory (EPROM, EEPROM and flash memory). Not PROM. • Cache Memory: L1 cache is on the CPU (fastest), L2 cache is connected to the CPU, but is outside it. • RAM (Random Access Memory) is volatile memory. It loses the memory content after a power loss (or within a few minutes). This can be memory sticks or embedded memory. ▪ SRAM and DRAM:  SRAM (Static RAM): Fast and expensive. Uses latches to store bits (FlipFlops).  Does not need refreshing to keep data, keeps data until power is lost. This can be embedded on the CPU.  DRAM (Dynamic RAM) Slower and cheaper. Uses small capacitors.  Must be refreshed to keep data integrity (100-1000ms).  This can be embedded on graphics cards.  SDRAM: (Synchronous DRAM):  What we normally put in the motherboard slots for the memory sticks.  DDR (Double Data Rate) 1, 2, 3, 4 SDRAM. CISSP Domain 2 Lecture notes 6 | P a g e https://thorteaches.com/  Firmware and SSDs (Solid State Drives). ▪ Firmware:  This is the BIOS on a computer, router or switch; the low-level operating system and configuration.  The firmware is stored on an embedded device.  PROM, EPROM, EEPROM are common firmware chips. ▪ Flash memory:  Small portable drives (USB sticks are an example); they are a type of EEPROM. ▪ SSD drives are a combination of EEPROM and DRAM, can’t be degaussed.  To ensure no data is readable we must use ATA Secure Erase or/and destruction of SSD drives.
